# Using JSON Web Tokens
## Introduction
Use `Node.js`, `Express` and `Knex` to build an API with authentication and authorization using JSON Web Tokens.





#### 2A - Database Access Functions

Write the following user access functions inside `api/users/users-model.js`:

- [x] `find`
- [x] `findBy`
- [x] `findById`




#### 2B - Middleware Functions

Write the following auth middlewares inside `api/auth/auth-middleware.js`:

- [ ] `restricted`
- [ ] `only`
- [ ] `checkUsernameExists`
- [ ] `validateRoleName`




#### 2C - Endpoints

Authentication will be implemented using JSON Web Tokens.

Write the following endpoints inside `api/auth/auth-router.js`:

- [x] `[POST] /api/auth/register`
- [ ] `[POST] /api/auth/login`

The endpoints inside `api/users/users-router.js` are built already but check them out:

- [x] `[GET] /api/users` - only users with a valid token can access
- [x] `[GET] /api/users/:user_id` - only users with a valid token AND a role of 'admin' can access




#### 2D - Secrets File

Complete the `secrets/index.js` file.




#### Users Schema

| field    | data type        | metadata                                      |
| :------- | :--------------- | :-------------------------------------------- |
| user_id  | unsigned integer | primary key, auto-increments, generated by db |
| username | string           | required, unique                              |
| password | string           | required                                      |
| role_id  | unsigned integer | foreign key, required                         |

#### Roles Schema

| field     | data type        | metadata                                      |
| :-------- | :--------------- | :-------------------------------------------- |
| role_id   | unsigned integer | primary key, auto-increments, generated by db |
| role_name | string           | required, unique                              |




#### Notes

- Run tests locally executing `npm test`.
- The project comes with `migrate`, `rollback` and `seed` scripts in case you need to reset the database.
- You are welcome to create additional files but **do not move or rename existing files** or folders.
- Do not alter your `package.json` file except to install extra libraries or add extra scripts. Do not update existing libraries.
- In your solution, it is essential that you follow best practices and produce clean and professional results.
- Schedule time to review, refine, and assess your work.
- Perform basic professional polishing including spell-checking and grammar-checking on your work.

### Task 3: Stretch Goals

- Build a React application that implements components to register, login and view a list of users. Gotta keep sharpening your React skills.



//  _________________________________________________

Data look like:

  await knex('roles').insert([
    { role_name: 'admin' },
    { role_name: 'student' },
    { role_name: 'instructor' },
  ])
  await knex('users').insert([
    {
      username: 'bob',
      password: '$2a$10$dFwWjD8hi8K2I9/Y65MWi.WU0qn9eAVaiBoRSShTvuJVGw8XpsCiq', // password "1234"
      role_id: 1,
    },
    {
      username: 'sue',
      password: '$2a$10$dFwWjD8hi8K2I9/Y65MWi.WU0qn9eAVaiBoRSShTvuJVGw8XpsCiq', // password "1234"
      role_id: 3,
    },
  ])
}